[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: This kind of goes back to
where I think we were talking about any
authenticated user can change anything
in the application.
>> Speaker 2: Right, right.
>> Speaker 1: But somebody is
saying that you can't update
other users in this app anyways.
Because the request.user
object from app.params ID
gets overwritten by auth get fresh user
>> Speaker 2: Auth, let's see.
Yeah, actually it does.
>> Speaker 1: And then so
he's just saying that's not intentional.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: So, how can you avoid
loading the request like this?
>> Speaker 2: Make a different
object name, not user.
Call it reg.something else, reg.author.
You just have to namespace it, I guess.
But yeah, that is unintentional, I didn't
even realize until he just said it.
But yeah that would definitely happen,
you would just have
to give a different name space,
just not put everything on the user.
>> Speaker 1: Another question,
just general, what are some
ways to scale the mean stack?
>> Speaker 2: Well,
you can just throw more money at it,
if it's on Heroku.
[LAUGH] scale of the Dynos.
Here, I'll show you, hold on.
This is the easiest way to scale,
let's see, where is it at?
Where's that button?
There we go.
So, if I come over here,
and I click this button.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: That's probably the easiest
way to scale, no you don't wanna do that.
So, as far as horizontally or
vertically scaling, the easiest
way is definitely clicking this button.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: That's if you don't mind
spending the money.
But I mean there are ways, as far as
getting you have huge data sets, right?
So, you start getting replicated sets.
So, you start replicating the database and
doing that stuff every night, and
then you might start charting
the database on different indices.
So, lets say we have a users table and
we start charting on
alphabetical order from A through D, we're
gonna take this and stick it over here.
And we're gonna grab these and
stick these over here.
So we're running them
on different machines.
Right, and then when we query
it'll go to the appropriate one.
So, that's one way, another way
is just load up more instances.
So, you can throw more money into it,
and beef up stuff vertically.
Or you can just like, I'll let's keep
these lower level mid-tier ones and
just go out horizontally.
Just buy more of those.
So, I'm definitely no expert on that.
But from my experience because
I am not a devopps person.
I just throw money at it.
So, I don't really have
a better answer to that.
>> Speaker 1: Another question was
>> Speaker 1: Let's see,
what would you recommend for
a beginner to read up on and
master some of this material?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so
there's this really good
blog that I like to read.
It makes sense to me.
Scotch.io.
So if reading is your thing,
if you wanted to read,
then I would definitely
recommend Scotch IO.
This stuff has some, I mean look,
node and MongoDB on Heroku,
that's what we just did today,
it was just published.
So this is good blog posts.
If I do read blog posts, it's mostly
stuff on here, or random people's blog.
This one's really good,
they love Mean Stack.
They wrote a book on Mean Stack so
they know it pretty well.
So, if reading was your thing and
that's what you needed to do, I would do
this.
>> Speaker 2: Any
other questions?
>> Speaker 1: [COUGH] Any NPM modules you
can recommend for interfacing with my SQL?
>> Speaker 2: [SOUND] Sequelize is good.
There's a better one,
though, than Sequelize.
[SOUND] Let me see.
Before I recommend it, let me make sure
it works for SQL and not just Postgres.
Bookshelf SQL.
Let's see.
Yeah, I think it's Bookshelf.
Yeah, so, Bookshelf is
probably the most popular one.
And SQLize is probably the next best one.
If you're familiar with Backbone
then Bookshelf will feel like home,
it's made by like the same people.
It looks backbone too.
Actually it looks different,
they updated it a little bit, but
it still kind of looks like Backbone.
But, yeah, that's the most popular one,
then SQLize.
>> Speaker 1: Do any of those
handle MS SQL?
>> Speaker 2: I have no idea.
>> Speaker 1: SQL has js host of it.
>> Speaker 2: This one does it.
It says, Postgres, MySQL, and SQLite3.
So
>> Speaker 2: Anything else?
I'm kind of parsing through
all of them here quick.
So here's a good repo to go look
at some awesome node stuff.
It's literally called node awesome.
If you go here,
it's just a read me of awesome things
in node.
>> Speaker 2: So,
if you ever need something
awesome just go read this thing,
I really need something really nice for
the file system.
Here we go, it's all the stuff you need.
What about build tools, yeah that's it.
So and the guy who made this is like
I think he's a group of people,
this guy, but he's very well known.
So, iIf he keeps that list updated,
I mean, two days ago with 7000 stars.
I'm sure it's a good list.
7000 starts for a readme is ridiculous.
Yep?
>> Speaker 1: What do you think about
Elasticsearch and Cabana?
>> Speaker 2: I don't know what cabana is,
but Elasticsearch is awesome.
I use it a lot.
Most apps these days need some type of
functionality like Elasticsearch, and
it's pretty cool cuz it's open source.
So, you can post it yourself and
then there's tons of Elasticsearch Azure
service platforms out there.
Heroku has some of them.
So, if search, if you need that,
you know, that real time search.
You need the power of Google in your app
then, yeah, logic search is awesome.
You just throw stuff at it and
get it later.
I really like it.
It's pretty simple to use.
I actually tried to deploy
my own hosting on it before.
Didn't have too much luck, but then again
that was a couple years ago before I knew
what I was doing, so I might try it again.
So yeah, I recommend Elasticsearch,
cannot recommend another one.
>> Speaker 2: Anything else here?
>> Speaker 1: Any thoughts
on clustering Node?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, you can cluster node,
but you have to in node if
you wanted to use clusters.
You would just MPM install, or
I'm sorry you would require the cluster
module which is actually brand new.
All right we'll go.
Well it's not brand new, but, let's see.
There we go.
Stability to,
it's unstable according to these docs.
Maybe these docs are out of date.
But yeah you can use the cluster module.
I don't know like, I'm like kind
of biased, I'm not biased but
I'm like kind of neutral on this
because I like the fact that
node is running on one thread and
it's evented I/O.
At the same time, it's like, I wish I had
more power, access more of these cores.
So, the cluster allows you to do that but
then again, you have to manage that stuff.
Stuff gets kind of gets out the wok if
you're not familiar with working on
multithreaded platforms, especially if
the platforms are multithreaded and
asynchrous at the same time.
I mean you can run into some trouble.
We start having threads being blocked,
by you doing a wild loop that never ends.
You know what I mean?
And you're just stuck,
I'm kind of unsure about this.
I never really used it in production.
I've built some stuff with
it just to learn about it,
but I don't really have any strong
opinions for or against it.
But if I had to do something
that was like CPU insensitive,
I probably wouldn't just use node to be
honest, I always use like Python or Go.
Something that was like heavy,
like I'm not gonna build like some
sensitive analysis machine
learning algorithm in node.
It probably would work, but it'll be
really hard and I'd be really, really good
at math, so I'll just go somewhere else.
>> Speaker 1: They
want just a quick recap on module x,
module.expert verses export.
Just the elevator pitch.
>> Speaker 2: So
module.exports is like,
I'm going to export this entire file.
Module exports is like nothing else
is going to be exported, except for
the thing to the right of this
equal sign or module.exports.
You can think of it like this,
module is like the file,
exports is an object and
you can put whatever you want on exports.
And if you use exports by itself,
it's still just putting
whatever you want on exports.
But when you require it,
exports just gets attached to module.
So, at the end it's still just module,
it's just exports is like I
want to export many things.
So, when I require it, I'll have an object
with all those properties on it.
Module.exports is like,
whatever I require is gonna be
whatever module the exports was.
It's only gonna be that one thing.